---
layout: post
title: "What you can learn from getting rucked.  GORUCK Tough Challenge 9/11 Shanksville, PA"
---

For those unfamiliar, unlike a color run or a tough mudder, the GoRuck Tough Challenge is not a race - only objectives.  It is not supposed intended to be fun, it is intended to suck for the entire ride.  GoRuck is not an individual feat, rather a team event.  

####Getting out of the comfort zone####

Why would anyone want to strap 6 bricks to their back for 12 hours while constantly being pushed to their mentally and physical thresholds?  Because this is a team event, it is at these threholds (or damn near your breaking point) that some of the rules Cadre imposes really make sense because they are not only rules; they are lessons.

This event is meaningless if you do not apply the lessons to your daily life, therefore I am going to strive to live by them here on out.

Rules/The-Lessons:

1. D.F.Q.
2. Team, team-mate, self
3. It's not about you.

These lessons are really intertwined.  I'm hope you're familiar with Rocky Balboa's inspirational speech:

>"The world ain’t all sunshine and rainbows. It’s a very mean and nasty place and **I don’t care how tough you are it will beat you to your knees and keep you there permanently if you let it. You, me, or nobody is gonna hit as hard as life. But it ain’t about how hard ya hit. It’s about how hard you can get hit and keep moving forward. How much you can take and keep moving forward.** That’s how winning is done! Now if you know what you’re worth then go out and get what you’re worth. But ya gotta be willing to take the hits, and not pointing fingers saying you ain’t where you wanna be because of him, or her, or anybody! Cowards do that and that ain’t you! You’re better than that!"

Rocky reminds us that life is hard.  At any point in the event, it is easy to say "screw this, I'm going home, back to dry clothes, warmth, food, and be lazy".  DONT do this. D.F.G.!  Again, this is not an individual event, this is a team event.  Although, Rocky did what was considered an individual sport, he had a trainer and a wife to support him.  And I don't care if you're the strongest man or woman on the planet; you as an individual can not carry hundreds of pounds of tree trunks, sand filled duffle-bags, and team weights.  In order to accomplish anything great or difficult, such as carrying all this weight for many miles, you need support and teamwork.  Throughout the event before anyone got crushed by the weight of the log or their forearms gave out to the sandbags, teammates would continuously sub into their place, even if it is every 30 seconds.  Many times my body started to fail me when carrying the weights, and someone was there to take my places as we pushed forward.  Likewise, I was there for my teammates when their bodies started to fail them.  Once, I started to cramp a few times during the event, and my teammates got me the elctrolytes I needed to finish.  When one of our members was cramping up and being crushed by his own rucksack, we shared his ruck to help us finish together.  **Only through each other are we able to finish anything so challenging that would be impossible alone.  Team is everything, and not giving up on yourself or your team is critical.** And do not be afraid to ask for help!

Another curious lesson that I learned was not to complain.  Everyone is sucking.  Everyone is hurting, cold, and miserable.  If you complain, it only hurts those around you, killing morale.  This reminds me what my dad taught me about attitude - that attitude effects your behavior and effects the people around you.  If you can crawl through cow crap mud with smile on your face and joke about it, I think your endurance will last much longer.  After all, it could always be worse - and it is worse for someone out there.  If you do the challenge, it's only for a mere 12 hours whereas a given person in captivity could be suffering for years.  You can choose or automatically default to be miserable and complain, or you can choose to **embrace the suck**.

The no-complaints, embrace the suck lesson ties into another lesson "if you don't have anything to say mission critical, then shut-up". Pick your words wisely.  I wanted to write this post to reflect on these lessons and show the value of such an event.

I want to thank all involved: the Cadre, the fire department, and my friends who got me into this adventure.  And I'd like to commemorate the heroes.  Each one of us had to memorize a name.  Later, I read her bio, remembered her name on the wall of the memorial and the pile of tributes.  I cannot describe this emotion.

I strongly recommend the GoRuck event.  

Again, the challenge reminded me of how important the people around me are.  This is water.  This is water.  This is America.
